So again,
this is just kind of a convention of
the way these observable inputs work.
But if we are building our plot
visualizations, and observable,
it's super handy.
I hope you agree.
So let's take a look here.
All right, so what we want the values of
the checkboxes to be, are essentially all
of the possible status codes one might be
able to select from our data, which again,
I had already parsed into an array here.
Just by going through the data and
pulling out all the status codes, so
we can replace for the options array,
instead of nothing or an empty array.
We can just drop in that
status codes value.
So now we've got some check boxes.
Excellent.
But the other thing that would be cool,
well first of all,
let's label this like we saw before.
The status or status code or
whatever you want.
The other thing in the text here
that you might have noticed is,
it would be useful if instead of
starting out with no data selected,
we started out with all
of the data selected.
And in the hints you may have
come across this so there is or
if you checked out the documentation
of the checkbox input,
there is another option I can add here
which is to put in the value of these.
Of the selected check boxes which
is essentially going to be an array
of the values that we want,
similar to how before we got an array
of the selected colours out.
So if I specify that in the options then
those will be essentially the default
values for this input.
So here, if I want everything
to be checked by default,
what I can do is just pass
in that same status codes
array as the value for
this input by default.
And then we'll see once I reevaluate that,
all of the checkboxes, start out checked.
And as I unselect things,
we'll see them disappear from that
selected codes array,
which now gives me this reactive reference
to whatever the user wants to
care about status code wise.
Cool.
Any questions, feel free to bring them up.
But I'm seeing nods.
I hopefully folks are following
along in the chat.
So let us now take these check boxes and
make them actually change
the visualization shall we.
So first of all, another fun thing about
receivable mail books is, if you click and
drag on it's three dots next to SL,
without little mickey mouse hand icon,
you can drag SL wow to
a totally different work space.
Just kidding, you can maybe nope, drag
a cell down further in the notebook for
some reason this particular
setup does not want me to, but
hopefully on your own okay, here we go.
So you can drag a cell and move it down
to, let's say above this next to do,
so that we can have a little
bit closer relationship.
Now in observable notebooks,
the order of cells does not matter at all.
The reactive runtime just looks at which
cells depend on which other cells.
So that's all it cares about.
So you can put them in
whatever order you want.
So we are going to go ahead and
put this check box right
above the cell for
our code in the next exercise.
Also, you may have also seen a filtered
cell there that is extraneous and
we don't need to care about it right now.